Today I think I'd like to work a little bit on proportions here now that I've got some of the basic
forms of the character roughed in I can begin to look at the proportions of the character as a whole.
And I think it looks to me like the torso is a little too long and the legs are a little too short.
And also as I continued down here on the hips and the legs I think I'm going to want these legs to be
spread apart just a little bit more.
So let's work on those things right now for the torso.
I think what I should do is come back to my character images screen layout and it looks to me like I
could bring this up just a bit if I hit the Z key.
I get this very dense mesh.
But if I hit this optimal display checkbox over here in the multi resolution modifier I get the original
edge lines of the mesh here.
So what I like to do is just go to Edit mode and just grab the vertices of the hips.
So I'll just press B for border select and drag select these and then just move them up some maybe up
to that belt area.
Now if I hit tab and go back to object mode I'll also go back to sculpt mode and take a look at that.
Right so that's pulled that area up a little bit more it's collapse the bottom of that abdomen area
a bit.
I think that might do it.
Let's take a look.
Yeah that gives us a little bit more length in the legs and not as much in the torso.
Yeah I think I like that.
Let's take a look at spreading the legs out here.
When you go back to that character images view and let me just go to this front view.
I can press control up arrow and that will make that one view that my cursor was hovering over full
screen so I'll tab into edit mode and what I'll do is I'll just select this edge right here and I'm
going to tumble around an alt shift select that.
So now I've got that ring around the top of the leg there and I'll press shift s and I'm going to move
the cursor to those selected objects right there.
Now the one key to go back to the front view and that what I'd like to do is select all of these and
rotate the leg.
At this point out just a bit.
So it's kind of like this leg here.
So they're spread out just a bit.
I'm going to hit Control up arrow again so that I can look at my tools panel.
I'll hit the T key and over here while I'm in edit mode I've got this Options tab.
And I want to turn on X mirror and that will allow me to change this one leg in the other leg will stay
symmetrical.
All right so I've got that I'll go back to my full screen view with control up arrow.
And here I'll go to face mode and select this row of faces down here with Allt select an edge right
between faces and control plus to expand my selection.
Up to that point where the cursor is now I want to move this pivot point after that cursor so I'll change
my pivot point from median to 3D cursor.
And now when I move or rotate or scale it will happen from that point.
So now I need to rotate.
I'm going to I could come over here and click this and drag this but I'm actually going to press the
R key for rotate and then press the Y key to rotate just around the y axis and then I'm going to pull
these out just a bit like that.
They're all right.
So now we've got that now I need to do the same thing for the feet and bend them back so they're flat
on the ground.
So let's come in here.
I mean we hit a de-select Z for wireframe and I'm going to hit the B key for border select and drag
select the foot area.
This is what I need to rotate but the cursor or the center of rotation is still up here.
I need to change that now don't I.
So I'll hit the alt key and tumble around and all shift to select this ring around the ankle and then
I'll press shift as cursor to selected.
And now if I go to face mode select these control plus and then control minus to get back down to there.
Now I should be able to hit bar and Y and rotate these back and maybe even move them down so maybe I'll
hit G and Z and pull these down just a hair like that all right did we actually do it.
Let's see.
I'll hit tab.
And there's our sculpted version all heat control up arrow and then I'll come back to my default view.
So there we have our character with the torso not quite so long and the feet and legs spread apart just
a little bit.
I think that looks a little bit better.
Now the other bit of proportion work I might do is with the neck.
I feel like the neck and shoulder area the the traps up here seem a little bit too beefy for
the actual image.
Let me take a look here.
I'm just going to select another layer so I can see.
Yes see I've got his neck pretty small here.
He's still got a bit of traps here but not quite that beefy.
So I need to work on that a bit.
Let's bring him back and let's take a look at this part and see if I can maybe do it like I did before
with just the bass Masch.
It's possible because if we look at it here you can see that the base match isn't quite right either.
So I'm going to hit the Tiki and turn off x mirror and I'll go to edge mode here.
And I want to select this edge right here.
I'd like to change the pivot point back to median and let's scale this in and see what happens.
So I will just hit the s key and scale this in a bit like so so and maybe scale this one in as well.
Let's also try and just move this one down a hair like this and let's see what happens when we do this
and try this.
All right so now let's go back to our sculped mode and let's see if anything changed.
Not really a little bit but not a lot.
What I'm going to do is hit the T key and come back over here to the Tools panel and go to the grab
brush.
I'm just going to gently try and bring these down a bit.
Something like that.
Let's see how that looks.
I'll go back and minimize this screen with control up arrow again.
Go back to my default view and let's take a look at this.
So yeah I think that helped with the neck there I think I like that a little bit better.
He doesn't look quite as beefy but also he's got a little bit more of a heroic stance with the shorter
torso and longer legs.
I think one last bit of adjustments on proportion here is the width of the chest.
I think I'd like to try and pull this out just a little bit and see what happens.
I don't know if it's going to work or if it's going to help but I'd like to try it and see just the
width here so I'm going to bring this out a bit.
I just want to gently bring this part out like this.
Very gently and maybe even pull some of these in a hair.
All right we'll see how that works.
These kinds of adjustments can be made throughout the process.
But I thought this was a good time now to take a look at the character as a whole now that some of the
muscles have been roughed in.
Also I want to make another pitch for using good reference images get a lot of them from a lot of different
angles even if you're creating some sort of fantasy character like this.
It really helps to ground your work in reality when you use reference images.